The Joe Rogan experience.
So they hired the guy, the best friends at the lab to investigate the lab.
Right. It's like hiring Robert Kardashian to investigate OJ.
<laugh> you know what I mean? It's like, and, and,
and when they interview these guys on TV, they always say the same thing.
Don't you want the best friends of the lab to interview the lab?
Isn't we know the most about it. We're doing the research.
It would be like Robert Kardish and being like, I know OJ really well, you know,
let me do the investigation. I'll figure out the truth.
I'll get to the bottom of this. Right. So anyway,
so they go to the lab for three hours, talk to their best friends,
looking straight and like, did you do it? No, we didn't do it. Okay.
Case closed.
And then they concluded in their w H O report that the lab theory was very
unlikely.
And we don't need to look into the lab case closed. And everybody was like, oh,
that doesn't make any sense. We can't have that.
These guys have a conflict of interest. Their careers are tied to this lab.
If the lab were found to be guilty again, we don't know. I don't know.
You don't know Peter Daik doesn't know. Well, maybe he knows,
but I don't think he knows, you know, their legacy,
this entire project of $200 billion, 200 million,
rather to dig up viruses all over the world would be cap put,
it would have to necessarily be stopped this whole industry. Okay.
Now here's the part where I'm gonna get a little controversial. Are you ready?
Mm-hmm <affirmative> is it okay? Sure. Okay.
So if I've gotten you that far again,
just to say that I don't blame anyone out there for having
this notion that like this lab accident theory is kind of a kooky thing that
like was cooked up by Mike Pompe or something like that.
I get why you think that, but now Trump's not, he's not here anymore. Right?
We don't have to argue about Trump anymore, hopefully, ever again. Right.
And we can just look at the piles of circumstantial evidence,
and there's a plenty of circumstantial evidence that it could have come.
The there's some circumstantial evidence that it could have come from nature.
I feel that the lab theory has more compelling circumstantial evidence,
because again, they were doing that kind of research. They also,
there was a huge cover up and the virus database went mysteriously offline
somehow in December, 2019. He's also the evolution of the virus itself, right?
That it that's what Robert, so Robert Redfield,
who was the CDC director of the time trained virologist, he says,
I took a look at this virus and I concluded that it is so powerful that it must
have been evolved in a lab setting.
And he pointed to the gain of function research,
and they called him a racist conspiracy theorist and all the rest. Yeah.
Right now here's the controversial part that the godfather of
that industry, the head of the, the,
of the pyramid is a guy you may have heard of called Anthony Fauci.
I I've heard of that guy. Right? Yeah.
Do you wanna hear more? Yeah. Okay. So Anthony Fauci,
the hero of the pandemic
is the most important person in the world of gain of function research.
There is, in other words, he is, and not just him,
there's Francis Collins at the NIH and some other people, but basically he,
he is the one dispersing all of the grants for this.
He is the one who pushed to turn it back on after Obama turned it back off,
that's a whole nother, crazy story.
He turned it back on without really consulting the white house.
That's breaking news, never been reported.
Just broke some news on your show right now. Really? Yes. Uh,
he consulted the office of science and technology policy,
which is like a part of the white house, but he didn't, uh, you know, the,
the white house put a pause on it. And then he like undid the pause. It,
the details are a little sketchy.
I'm not saying that he didn't anything necessarily wrong or illegal.
I'm just saying that a lot of people that I know inside the Trump administration
had no idea. This had turned it back, turned back on.
He found a way to turn it back on in the mess of the Trump administration,
cuz the Trump administration was full of bunch of clowns, right?
So at the end you could get stuff done. If you just knew how to work,
the system felt you is the head of that system. Why, what was.
His incentive?
That's his, that's everything. That's his whole career that's.
So what he would say and uh, to be fair again, to be perfectly fair to him,
he's trying to predict the next pandemic.
He thinks this is the way that you predict the next pandemic.
By digging up all these viruses,
we gotta dig up more and more viruses and play around with them,
cuz we're gonna find how they evolved.
Then we're gonna come up with therapeutics and vaccines and all this stuff.
But there were no the.
Right, but we did have vaccines quicker than most because the DARPA funded a,
a program to make R mRNA vaccines 10 years ago that actually worked, you know,
that was a military funded program, but we can get to that in a second,
but that's.
Not related to this. Right?
So my that's that's, that's a very fair OBS. In other words,
the,
the $200 million program to predict and preempt the pandemic failed to predict
and, and preempt the pandemic. But it may have also sparked.
The pandemic, but may have sparked. But, but here's my, my, my question,
when I read all about the research they were doing,
I didn't see what they were doing to prevent it. I just,
they were what they were doing was examining these viruses and trying to find
out how they work and trying to see what happens when they get more virent.
But what I didn't see is that the invention of therapeutics.
Or the, I, I hear what you're saying. I'm, I'm,
I'm willing to give these scientists the benefit of the doubt that they're
honest goal was to create, do good science to prevent and predictive.
Oh, I am too. That's not what I'm saying. What.
I'm I, I don't know if they produced therapeutics what.
I'm saying, but did they have a lack of funding in that department?
Was all the funding. I dunno. I, I, you know,
allocated towards examining the viruses themselves and not towards developing
some sort of, uh, a therapeutic, uh, I, I.
Don't yous a good question. I don't know the answer to that question. Okay.
But what I do know is that the majority of their time was spent digging up
viruses in the wild and bringing them.
Back to these labs. But Fauci yeah. When he started it back up,
did he start it back up with the intent to just uncover more information?
So be better informed.
His argument was this is vital research. The longer we pause it,
the more danger that we're in, I'm trying to save the world.
And so we gotta turn this stuff back on,
cuz this is how we're gonna save the world from the next pandemic,
which I'm sure he believed. And I'm sure a lot of these people believed, right.
But there is another school of thought out there.
And the other school of thought is, Hey,
instead of taking $200 million to dig up viruses and make them more dangerous,
why don't you put that money into monitoring and surveillance in the places
where the bats are. In other words,
if you put resources where the outbreaks are likely to occur,
then you could squelch them when they pop up.
Because actually viruses change every day. And,
and trying to predict the pandemic is a fools era.
That's another scientific school thought. That's not the one that F's in. Right?
But the reason that there's no debate about this is because the NIH and ni a I D
structure such that everyone gets funded by them. They're funding everybody.
So if you are in the field of virology, there's a 99.9,
9% Chi that you're getting money from Anthony Fauci in one way or another,
your grants, your careers, your chairmanships. So there's no,
there's no dissent allowed in that community.
I learned a lot about the scientific community and, and the VIR.
So no debate. I talk, I talk to scientists all the time who say, I,
I think this gain of function research is really dangerous.
I can't say anything. I'm gonna lose my grant. Geez. I gonna lose my career.
This happens to me all the time. And when Robert Robert Redfield spoke up,
because he's a big mocker and he's head of the VI head of CDC, he said,
it it's my opinion that it came from the lab.
Cause he can't declassify a bunch of classified information on CNN. Right.
But he's talking about what he knows. Right? It's obvious to everyone,
who's in the know that he's seen the intelligence and he's not just talking out
of his. He's not some Joe Schmo virologist. He was the head of the CDC.
He's seen all of the secret, secret stuff. Even the stuff I never got,
got a whiff of. And he, and he went on TV and said, Hey, uh,
I think this probably came from the lab. We should probably look at the lab.
And he was called a racist in a conspiracy theorist. And, but by foolish people,
but what he's saying, but Fauci disagreed with him publicly. Right.
So that's the thing. So if you, if you just think about it just for once again,
I, I I'm begging people out there just like, think again,
whatever you thought about the lab accident, it doesn't matter.
Whatever you tweeted and 20, 20 March, it doesn't, nobody cares. Right.
And the same thing for the media, let it go. Yeah.
Because it's all confirmation bias now. Like, oh, I, I, I tweeted this in March,
2020, and I want it to hold up. Nobody cares what you tweeted in March, 2020.
Let's just have a, a rational yeah.
Moratorium conversation about what are the likely ways we got into this horrible
crisis that we're in.
And so for people in the know who are listening to Robert Redfield,
it's clear that he's calling out Anthony Fauci. In other words,
he's pointing to the gain of function research,
which he knows cuz he's the head of the CDC reports up to Fauci. He knows that.
Right, right.
But he's not saying that because even that's too hot for him to say it's hot and
it's too. And the scientists are not gonna say that either.
Now you have a lot of people sort of on the,
on the right media and the mega media. Who've been saying that for a long time,
but they don't have any credibility with the mainstream media. And I'm,
I'm just like in that weird space where like I've wrote a book about, you know,
us China relationship. So I had all these,
this good reporting and I'm not bag media.
Cause I criticized Trump in my columns all the time. So I am mainstream media,
but I'm saying we should look at the lab and it messes with people's minds.
Cause they're like, oh what, why is he doing this? Why is Josh pushing the lab?
I'm not pushing the lab. That's the problem today with these rigid ideologies.
Exactly. Everyone's on teams. It's all Fashional yes, yes. But I don't care.
I don't even care if the lab accident theory is true.
If the natural origin theory is true, then great.
I will leave the ticker tape parade,
celebrating Peter Daik and Anthony Fauci through down, you know, fifth avenue.
I'm, I'm happy to do that.
All I'm saying is that we have to also look into this lab, these labs rather,
and that we can't hire the best friends of the lab to look into the labs.
Cause they have a clear conflict of interest and they it up already.
Catch new episodes that Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog JRE videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data cost. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan experience.